[Music]
have you ever stopped to think about how
much we rely on buses whether you use
one for school or utilize public transit
buses are so ingrained in our daily
lives that there's a lot of questions we
could and should be asking about them
one why is the steering wheel so darn
big and turns out it's for safety
reasons
buses didn't always have power steering
so drivers had to use all their muscle
to turn that regular-sized steering
wheel to maneuver such a huge bus there
turns needed to be accurate so they
don't cause a disruption in traffic and
parking would have been difficult too
when power steering became standard in
the 50s a big steering wheel had to be
added to accommodate the rotation of
those huge wheels it helps the bus
drivers stay in control - just how big
are those steering wheels the steering
wheels on buses are generally between 16
and 22 inches across these massive
steering wheels and the bus itself are
subject to yearly inspections you'd
probably also be surprised at how many
laws surround buses which are imposed by
departments of Transportation and other
safety administrations the rules are
particularly tight for school buses
which is a good thing 3 why aren't there
seat belts on buses
research shows that buses are one of the
safest ways to travel even without seat
belts up to 40 times safer in fact than
traveling by car in regards to school
buses they're safer dude is something
called compartmentalization this means
that the seats are close enough to each
other have high and padded backs and are
high off the ground this means that in
the event of an accident the impact
would occur underneath the bus and the
seat in front of you would act like an
airbag
for speaking of school buses why are
they yellow if you live in the u.s.
school buses are actually required to be
yellow by law this may have to do with
how easily we can spot the color yellow
it's one of the first colors on the
spectrum that we see our eyes are also
good at seeing yellow in our peripheral
vision that is even when it isn't
directly in front of us plus yellow is
the color most easily seen when it's
foggy rainy or snowing in short school
buses are yellow because it keeps
students other drivers and pedestrians
safe 5 what exactly is school bus yellow
it's not really that primary yellow
color is it well school bus yellow is
actually a mixture of yellow and orange
to create a unique mango like color for
safety reasons the goal was for the
yellow of a school bus to stand out from
the yellow of regular cars construction
vehicles and equipment so school buses
are their own unique shade of yellow you
might even see it on a crayon
6 how much do buses weigh when it comes
to school buses there are different
regulations that dictate their size the
average school bus weighs between 14,000
and nineteen thousand five hundred
pounds as far as your standard public
transit bus they can weight upwards of
30,000 pounds just the tires alone weigh
about 150 to 200 pounds each have you
ever wondered about this and does the
weight surprise you 7 how many people
can a bus transport the average school
bus is 35 feet long and can carry 64
passengers obviously students can't
stand while riding in a school bus but
you can in public transit the average
city bus is about 46 feet long and can
carry about a hundred and 20 people
including the sitter's and the standards
these are sometimes known as articulated
buses which mean they can pronounce
words very clearly not out it really
means that they're made up of two
sections held together by a joint
hey what does it take to become a school
bus driver you must be at least 18 years
old and pass a physical and vision test
you'll have to apply for a commercial
learner's permit and pass a thorough
written test then you'll have to
complete 14 hours of classroom work plus
six hours of in bus training finally you
must pass your road test which includes
a pre drive inspection a test of your
ability to perform basic Road maneuvers
and a railroad crossing in addition to
all of that you have to renew your
commercial driver's license every four
years which requires refresher training
and passing another written and road
test 9 what was the first public transit
bus like the omnibus started the modern
public transit craze in 1826 these were
horse-drawn carts that could only carry
8 to 10 people at a time well the system
was modern for its era traveling this
way was really uncomfortable and
potentially smell it streets were still
paved in cobblestone making for a bumpy
ride and that horse would probably have
to make a few you know pit stops
except he wouldn't stop ten who was the
very first public transit bus driver
well depends on where and when there are
records of a man named John Greenwood
operating a scheduled bus route from
Manchester to Pendleton in the UK as
early as 1824 these would have been the
initial horse-drawn models if we're
talking about the buses we'd recognize
today the very first driver is unknown
but we do know that one of the first
mass motor bus companies was the yellow
coach manufacturing company founded by
John D Hertz in 1923 he ended up selling
most of his shares to General Motors in
eleven how did we get to the modern bus
as we use today after the horse-drawn
omnibus came the horse car the cable car
and then the streetcar in 1896 we
arrived at rail transit meaning subways
and monorails
it was faster cleaner more efficient and
carried more and more people rail
companies realized it was cost-effective
- and helped the economy to this day
many tax dollars go to improving our
roadways and public transit systems
twelve how much gas does it take to fill
a school bus school buses can hold
between 60 and 100 gallons of diesel
fuel
due to the efficiency of diesel school
buses are responsible for the least
amount of carbon emissions from vehicles
currently on the road this also means
that students and teachers riding the
buses aren't breathing in harmful fuels
or gases keeping everyone safe and
healthy 13 are there any bus related
world records in fact there are a few
but by far the most extraordinary was
completed by a Besh D dominant who
pulled a 10 ton bus 160 4.04 feet with
his teeth Dominic pulled off this
incredible feat of strength in India in
April 28th 2015 not surprisingly no one
has broken this unbelievable record
since Dominic has other athletic
record-breaking achievements under his
belt as well such as breaking open 136
coconuts with his bare hands in 60
seconds
there's also Bubba blackwell who holds
the world record for flying over 15
buses on his motorcycle in 1999 beating
the previous record of 14 held by the
stunt king Evel Knievel in 1975 14 where
did the song the wheels on the bus come
from hey did you sing this one as a kid
the original composer of this song is
unknown but it was possibly written by a
woman
named Verna Hills published in 1939 the
lyrics are a little different everywhere
and is still sung in the US UK Canada
and Australia today this Nursery Rhyme
was mostly used as a way to keep
children entertained on long road trips
now if you pay close attention it has
the same melody as here we go round the
mulberry bush hmm do we have a copyright
violation here hey if you learn
something new today then give this video
a like and share it with a friend
here are some more videos I think you'll
enjoy just click to the left or right
and remember stay on the bright side of
life
[Music]